---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/personal-vault/system-design/high-level-design/2134-minimum-swaps-to-group-all-1-s-together-ii/"}
---


A **swap** is defined as taking two **distinct** positions in an array and swapping the values in them.

A **circular** array is defined as an array where we consider the **first** element and the **last** element to be **adjacent**.

Given a **binary** **circular** array `nums`, return _the minimum number of swaps required to group all_ `1`_'s present in the array together at **any location**_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [0,1,0,1,1,0,0]
**Output:** 1
**Explanation:** Here are a few of the ways to group all the 1's together:
[0,0,1,1,1,0,0] using 1 swap.
[0,1,1,1,0,0,0] using 1 swap.
[1,1,0,0,0,0,1] using 2 swaps (using the circular property of the array).
There is no way to group all 1's together with 0 swaps.
Thus, the minimum number of swaps required is 1.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [0,1,1,1,0,0,1,1,0]
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** Here are a few of the ways to group all the 1's together:
[1,1,1,0,0,0,0,1,1] using 2 swaps (using the circular property of the array).
[1,1,1,1,1,0,0,0,0] using 2 swaps.
There is no way to group all 1's together with 0 or 1 swaps.
Thus, the minimum number of swaps required is 2.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** nums = [1,1,0,0,1]
**Output:** 0
**Explanation:** All the 1's are already grouped together due to the circular property of the array.
Thus, the minimum number of swaps required is 0.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 105`
- `nums[i]` is either `0` or `1`.


```c++

class Solution {
public:
    int minSwaps(vector<int>& nums) {

        int start = 0 , end = 0;
        int total_ones = 0;
        for(auto i : nums){
            if(i==1) total_ones++;
        }

        if(total_ones==0) return 0;

        // to kill the circular property , append to the end ( only append the elements till window size)

        for(int i =0 ; i< total_ones;i++){
            nums.push_back(nums[i]);
        }
        int ans = INT_MAX;
        int zeroes = 0;
        
        while(end < nums.size()){
            if(nums[end]==0) zeroes++;

            if(end - start + 1 == total_ones){
                ans = min(ans, zeroes);
                if(nums[start]==0) zeroes--;
                start++;
            }
            end++;
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```